So now let's talk about
the network load balancer.
So it's a Layer 4 load balancer
and therefore it allows you to deal
with TCP and UDP traffic.
This is lower level, Layer 7 was HTTP
and Layer 4 is going to be TCP and UDP traffic.
So these work for the network load balancer
and therefore when in the exam you see UDP
think network load balancer or even TCP.
Okay, also on top of it,
the network load balancer is really, really high performance
and therefore it can handle millions of requests per seconds
and it has ultra low latency.
Now, another specificity of the network load balancer
is that it only has one static IP per availability zones
and you can assign an elastic IP to each AZ.
So this is very helpful when you need
to expose your application with a set of static IPs.
And this can be elastic IPs.
So when the exam you say,
Hey, your application can only be accessed within
one, two, or three different IPs,
then you need to think about the network load balancer
as an option.
So if you see extreme performance TCP or UDP
or static IPs, think network balancer.
So let's have a look at how that works.
So it works very similarly to the application balancer.
We create target groups
and then the network balancer will redirect to them.
So we can use for example, the TCP traffic
or for example, in the backend, the GTP,
but still in the front end use TCP.
So what about the target groups?
This is the important part.
So the target groups can be EC2 instances.
That means that your network load balancer
can redirect to your EC2 instances
and send TCP or UDP traffic to them.
But you can also register IP addresses
and these IP addresses when they're hard coded
and they must be hard coded,
they must be private IPs.
So why would you do this?
Well, you can of course send the private IP
of the EC2 instance that you own,
but also you could use the private IP of a server
that you have in your own data center
and therefore both of them can be fronted
by the same network load balancer.
And it's also possible for you
to have a network load balancer
in front of an application load balancer.
So in that case, the NLB is in front of your ALB.
So why would you do this?
Well, thanks to the network load balancer
you would get, for example, the fixed IP addresses,
and then thanks to the application load balancer,
you can get all the rules that you have
around the handling HTTP type of traffic.
So it is a valid combination.
Now one last thing you need to know for the exam
is that the health checks performed
by the network load balancer target groups
are support three different kind of protocols.
They support the TCP protocol, the HTTP protocol
and the HTTPS protocol.
So if your backend application supports the HTTP
or HTTPS protocol, then it is definitely possible for you
to define a health check on these protocols.
So that's it for the network load balancer.
I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.